next we'll add a field to push the
pieces in a certain direction once again
I'll select all the shards go to the
fields menu and this time i'll choose
radial a radial field pushes or pulls
dynamic objects from a central location
I'll go into the options for the radial
field
I want to change a couple of these key
attributes
first of all the attenuation
that makes the intensity of the field
drop off with distance I don't want that
effect I want the intensity to be
constant throughout the scene i'll set
the attenuation 20
also max distance shouldn't be on max
distance is a hard limit on the extent
of the field I want to turn that off
I'll click create and the radio field
appears at the origin I'll grab the move
tool and just bring it up and push it
back
positive magnitude it will push the
fragments away from it
and once again you'll see the simulation
slow down at the point of impact but you
can see that the radial field is having
an effect now
in fact the radial field is having too
much effect it's pushing the shards on
every frame because it has a constant
magnitude and that is the effect of
causing the shards to fly out in a
really unnatural fashion let's do
another play blast so we can compare
here's that play blast now
and here you can see more clearly
because it's running at a constant rate
of speed I'll loop that because the
radial field has a constant magnitude
it's pushing the pieces away on each
frame all we really want to have happen
is that that radial field gives the
shards a little bit of a kick for a
duration of maybe two frames
you
I'm going to keyframe the radio field
attribute just
once again I'll disable evaluation of
rigid bodies modify evaluate nodes rigid
bodies on frame one the radial feels
selected I'll set its magnitude 20
magnitude and key selected the point of
impact is frame 12 that's when I want
the radial field to take effect on frame
12 i'll set the magnitude to let's say
10 once again right-click key selected
and then just two frames later on frame
14 i'll set the magnitude back down to
zero and once again right-click key
selected
I can go back to the graph editor I
still got it minimized here or you can
go to window animation editors graph
editor here's the radial field magnitude
I'll click to select the attribute name
then press the F key to frame the curve
what we want here is a sudden transition
from 0 to a value of 10 and then
suddenly change back to value of 0
to achieve that I'll select all of the
keyframes and then set them to step
tangents up here on the graph editor
toolbar and now you'll see that curve
flatlines on 0 until frame 12 then
suddenly jumps up to a value of 10 and
then in frame 14 jumps back down to a
value of zero
rewind
modify if
nodes and turn rigid bodies back on once
again and then play in the timeline to
observe the results once again to see
what it really looks like you can do a
play blast
we're getting pretty good results here
but we can do better simply by adjusting
a few of the rigidbody attributes and
solve our attributes
so that we can see faster playback in
the viewport i'm going to use stand-ins
i'm going to select all the shards in
the outliner once again go into the
channel box and scroll down in that
rigid body node and you'll see standing
attribute I'll click on that and choose
cube and now when I play back in my view
port it's much faster it's not as
accurate but it's much faster and it
plays back almost in real time this way
I can experiment and see the results
more quickly without having to wait for
a play blast let's experiment with some
of the physical properties of our
objects once again I can select all the
shards and in the channel box I can
adjust the mass bounciness damping and
friction mass has to deal with how
colliding objects will behave an object
of high mass will have a great deal of
influence over an object of low mass in
this case the mass is not going to make
much difference in our animation but the
bounciness will and that's simply how
much the object will rebound after a
collision if i set the balancing is down
to let's say point one for all the
shards then we'll see a different result
rewind we've also got damping which is
basically a chill-out factor it sort of
reduces the inertia carried over from
the previous frame higher damping values
will result in slower moving objects
with a value of maybe point five it's
going to have a subtle effect but it's
going to eventually cause them to sort
of settle down and stop jittering around
as much if I increase the damping up to
maybe one or two that will reduce jitter
in the animation the friction has two
attributes static friction is a force
that needs to be overcome to get an
object moving and dynamic friction is a
force that must be overcome to keep an
object moving once it's in motion
I can set them both to a higher value of
let's say maybe point six
and now it behaves more like masonry and
less like rubber go back down and change
my stand in back to none and do a play
blast so i can see a better
approximation
window played last
now as you can see having change those
attributes I get a much different result
shards of the bricks don't move very
much because they have a high friction
and a low bounciness at this point I
would go back into these attributes and
experiment with their values in order to
get the look that I want in order to see
the result in real time you'll have to
do a play blast once again
adjusted some of the attributes for the
shards I've now got a bounciness of
point eight a damping of two and
friction of 0.2 here's what that looks
like in my plate last if I'm happy with
that then I'm ready to bake the
simulation two keyframes
you